# Firebase: The Good, The Bad, The Ugly

Firebase is incredible. Except when it isn't.

## Firestore Rules

The Firestore rules simulator is broken.

Firestore rules are incredibly painful to write, validate, test. It's a weird
subset of JavaScript. The only reliable way to write Firestore rules would be to
build them in a higher level abstraction then compile them down to Firestore
rules.

## Firestore Reads and Writes Analytics

At some point in your development you'll accidentally incur hundreds or
thousands or millions of reads and writes, and you won't really know why or how.
But you'll definitely be charged for them! This is kind of like filing taxes.
You owe the IRS money. They don't know how much. You don't know how much. But
after you tell them how much, they might let you know that you were wrong.

## Stewardship of open source

Reactfire was brilliant, and now it's abandoned.
It had a poorly-designed API that didn't allow for undefined or null values.
It obscured permissions errors, preventing you from seeing where those errors
originated or what doc was trying to be read when the error was thrown.

## Aggregations

Server side aggregations were such a nice addition.

## Talking directly to the database

You don't have to build an API layer when building on Firebase with Firestore.
Instead, Firestore rules govern access. This is a very sharp tool, but such an
incredible time saver.

People don't talk about this. But in terms of time saved, it's worth several
developer salaries per year, at least.

## Real time, everywhere

People expect apps to.
